chore: distributed sessions (#329)
bcnmy/docs: docs/Modules/sessions/DistributedSessions.mdx

---
title: Distributed Sessions
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Distributed Sessions with DAN

## Introduction

> Biconomy’s Distributed Sessions are a powerful feature designed to enhance the efficiency, security, and user experience of decentralized applications. Leveraging Biconomy’s Delegated Authorisation Network (DAN), our distributed sessions solution provide a seamless way to manage authorization keys and automate transactions securely and efficiently. This product offers developers a zero-development, zero-custody sessions solution that can be easily integrated directly from the frontend.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Biconomy’s Distributed Sessions are a powerful feature designed to enhance the efficiency, security, and user experience of decentralized applications. Leveraging Biconomy’s Delegated Authorisation Network (DAN), our distributed sessions solution provide a seamless way to manage authorization keys on MPC network and automate transactions securely, within given permissions context and efficiently. This product offers developers a zero-development, zero-custody sessions solution that can be easily integrated directly from the frontend.
```

[skip to the tutorial](../../tutorials/sessions/createDistributedSession)

## What is DAN?

> The Delegated Authorisation Network (DAN) is Biconomy’s off-chain authorization network, which leverages the economic security of Eigenlayer AVS. It is designed to enhance the security, customizability, and speed of managing authorization keys for smart accounts. Read more about DAN [here](https://www.biconomy.io/post/introducing-dan-the-programmable-authorisation-network-for-ai-agents)

Reviewer: let's not use "off-chain authorization network"

Reviewer: how is - blockchain-agnostic programmable signing infrastructure ?

Reviewer: also maybe add diagram from slide # 10

> The Delegated Authorisation Network (DAN) is Biconomy’s off-chain authorization network, which leverages the economic security of Eigenlayer AVS. It is designed to enhance the security, customizability, and speed of managing authorization keys for smart accounts. Read more about DAN [here](https://www.biconomy.io/post/introducing-dan-the-programmable-authorisation-network-for-ai-agents)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Delegated Authorisation Network (DAN) is Biconomy’s off-chain authorization network, which leverages the economic security of Eigenlayer AVS. It is designed to enhance the security, interoperability, and speed of managing authorization keys for smart accounts and it's sessions. Read more about DAN [here](https://www.biconomy.io/post/introducing-dan-the-programmable-authorisation-network-for-ai-agents)
```

## Benefits of Distributed Sessions with DAN

> **Enhanced Security:** Distributed sessions minimize the exposure of the main private key by using session keys with specific permissions. Even if a session key is compromised, the attacker gains limited access, protecting the user's main account and funds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Enhanced Security:** Distributed sessions minimise the exposure of the private key by storing shards in the nodes and generating signature if certain conditions are met. In context of a session, they are ephemeral and even if a session key is compromised, the attacker gains limited access, protecting the user's main account and funds.
```

> **Improved User Experience:** Users no longer need to confirm every single transaction. Instead, they can authorize a session key with predefined permissions for a specific period, allowing for smoother and more seamless interactions with dApps.

Reviewer: maybe can say makes it interoperable by storing in the network. so even if the browser crashes they can still access their session

> **Automation and Efficiency:** Distributed sessions enable the automation of repetitive or time-sensitive tasks. Users can set up session keys to handle recurring payments or interact with smart contracts automatically when certain conditions are met, reducing the need for manual intervention and enhancing operational efficiency.

Reviewer: maybe @Graeme-Code can help here. as in to be able to trust AI agents without worrying about them going rogue.

Reviewer: users could just leave and intent and go to sleep and automated transactions can be processed in secure way.
